[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Cyndi
Dale is back with us,
continuing her passion
to help people awaken
and strengthen their
intuitive abilities.
Today, we're
focusing on her book
"Raise Clairaudient Energy,"
which follows her book "Awaken
Clairvoyant Energy."
And she's going to take us deep
into the clairs, as they say.
And after 65,000
client sessions,
she has earned her stripes
to tell us all about it.
And you know what?
We were talking off camera.
You have another
book coming out.
I'm so excited about it.
It's not quite here yet,
but you're pretty much
done writing it.
I would like to start
the interview talking
about the book that's going to
be coming out in a few months,
OK?
It's called "Little
Book of Empathy."
>>CYNDI DALE: I would love to.
>>REGINA: I bring
it up because we
each have such a unique
relationship with empathy.
And a lot of the
sensitives watching this
are overly empathetic,
taking on everyone's stuff.
So I don't have any notes on
it, because I haven't read it,
because it's not out.
But let's start talking about
what motivated you to write it.
And then later, after that,
we'll get into "Clairaudient."
>>DALE: I would love to because,
actually, empathy is a clair,
so we're still talking
about the clairs.
Clairempathy is that
ability to sense
what's happening in others.
And not just other people--
it can be animals, or
nature, or whatever
it is that's around us.
And I, like most
of the listeners,
have struggled with
empathy, as well--
with that kind of over-sponging,
is one of the non-verbs
that I would use about it.
>>REGINA: Even that can
spill into overweening
of others around you, trying
to protect everybody from ever
having a bad day or experience.
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: It's so draining.
>>DALE: It's exhausting.
And then, oftentimes,
you lose your own energy.
>>REGINA: Oh, boy, yeah.
>>DALE: Because as you take
on other people's feelings,
or physical conditions, or
their mental awarenesses,
or what's happening to them,
or what their needs are,
then inadvertently
people like us often
end up giving them a little shot
of energy to keep them going.
And so I spent most
of my life-- probably
till about 20 years
ago, when I really
began to focus on these
empathic abilities and gifts
and what they really were about
from a psychic and intuitive
point of view, not
just from sort of like,
oh, we're sitting around and
talking and understanding
each other point of view.
I spent most of my life
just feeling everybody
else's everything's.
So I knew when they
were sick, and I
knew what they were feeling.
I knew if they were
horrified about something.
I knew what they really needed.
I knew what they wanted.
It's crazy, because then you
don't get to be yourself.
>>REGINA: I was going to say,
but did you know anything about
yourself--
>>DALE: No.
[GASPS]
>>REGINA: --and your own energy?
>>DALE: No, no.
It's very hard to
become yourself
when you're really sort of
a mirror of everybody else.
>>REGINA: And you know, Cyndi,
I've had this conversation
with a lot of people.
Women, almost
exclusively women, share
that they have this problem,
especially with family
and when they go
into a relationship.
I'm talking about really strong,
competent, accomplished women
in their careers
and chosen fields
get into a
relationship, and boom,
they're spending
all their energy.
It's all going outward.
It goes to the
partner in their life,
and they can't feel
themselves anymore.
And this actually,
oftentimes, leads
to split ups in relationships.
>>DALE: It does, because
you can't be around it.
I have so many women clients who
come to me for something really
basic like, I can't sleep next
to my husband, or my partner,
or my this or that.
And it might be
a woman, but they
might have been the one to take
on the role of feeling it all
and working it all through.
And they can't sleep there,
because they're up all night,
feeling what wasn't felt by
their partner during the day.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>DALE: I know, it's extreme.
>>REGINA: That's extreme.
>>DALE: But it's not
uncommon, either.
And there are some men--
my son, my youngest
son, actually.
He's 20, right now.
He's one of those
sponges, as well.
I remember forever ago--
he was in the third grade.
I was in therapy
one day, and I was
working on a really deep
issue that was down in my body
and was really physical.
And I could feel
it, and I let it go.
And maybe about an
hour after my session,
I got a call from the
school nurse who said,
your son has thrown
out his back.
I said, how can he
throw out his back?
He's in third grade.
She goes, I don't know.
He was just sitting
in the school room,
and he said he felt this
pain come into his body,
and it threw out his back.
So these are real energies.
Just because they're subtle,
or psychic, or intuitive,
or spiritual, or quantum, or
whatever we want to call them,
they physically affect us.
They emotionally impact us.
And we're not going to
change other people,
so we have to have boundaries.
>>REGINA: Oh, my god.
For me, that's been the
biggest issue in life--
is that I tend to
live in the moment
and don't have boundaries.
And a lot of other
people are like that.
Women, in particular--
without boundaries.
And so we walk around
oftentimes drained
and not feeling ourselves.
>>DALE: Exactly, and
not feeling well.
And sometimes, not knowing it.
There is one very
interesting study--
I'm not sure it's completely
scientifically valid,
but it certainly makes sense
to me on a practical level--
that the auric field, the
field around our bodies
that extends from our
subtle organs, et cetera,
shares so much between
us and somebody else--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>DALE: --that you can even
take in somebody's nutrients.
Like if your--
I know.
They showed how
somebody absorbed
vitamin D. They were low in
vitamin D. Somebody they were
near was high in vitamin
D, and they actually
temporarily went
up in vitamin D,
because they absorbed that in.
>>REGINA: Well, that
actually makes sense.
These are just fields
of information.
And if you have
inner-penetrating fields,
why wouldn't you?
If you're absorbing
other kinds of energies,
why not nutrient information?
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: That's
fascinating, though.
>>DALE: It is.
Well, Einstein said, "We're just
oscillating fields of energy."
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DALE: So we're always just
sort of playing and dancing
in each other's fields.
>>REGINA: Well, why is it that
men-- generally speaking--
have so much easier
a time of maintaining
their own boundaries and sensing
themselves, their purpose,
and so forth, within life?
>>DALE: I think it
goes back thousands
of years to hunter-gatherer.
I don't think it's much
more complicated than that--
that our energetic bodies took
a cue, thousands of years ago,
from our biology,
from how we had
to live in order to survive.
And this was sort of post the
goddess civilizations, when
women were--
OK, we're a little weaker, so we
guess we have to stay at home,
and take care of everybody,
and do the cooking.
>>REGINA: Well, and
you have to collaborate
and be in community.
>>DALE: And you
share, and you have
to know what your children
are going through.
You have to pick up
on them getting sick
before they get sick.
Maybe the men are
away on a raid,
and you have to sense if they
are injured so you prepare
for when they come back.
And the men-- you can't focus
on feelings, and emotions,
and what somebody
needs when you're
out there looking
for the gazelle,
or when you're fighting
the good fight.
You have to stay really focused.
That's the benefit
of, say, ADHD,
with this in a lot
of men and boys--
you hyperfocus.
So you can't deal with feelings,
and emotions, and needs.
It's all about survival.
So let's just focus
and keep going.
I think we're just
programmed that way.
I think that's how we are.
>>REGINA: OK, so let's
talk about your book
and the different
kinds of empathy.
And then, also, give
us some strategies
of how you can create some
kind of energetic boundary
to at least contain yourself
or not let everything in.
>>DALE: Exactly.
Well, I keep it
simple in this book.
It is called the "Little
Book of Empathy."
I have one book
that's 1,200 pages,
and this would not
be a titled that.
[LAUGHTER]
So primarily, there's
physical empathy,
where you pick up
on what's happening
in the physical environment,
or somebody else's physicality.
And so some people are
really naturally based.
They go out in the
world, and they
can sense what's happening to
a tree that's being cut down,
or their animals are in
pain or wanting to be fed.
I'm way too
hyperaware of my dogs
saying that they're
hungry, feeling hungry.
They're probably not,
but they've just learned
how to send me those messages.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: They're good.
>>DALE: Right?
Feed, feed.
And I go, OK.
[LAUGHTER]
But I know I'm a
physical empathic.
And when I'm working with
clients, even over the phone,
I feel what's happening
in their body.
I don't own it, though.
I register, but I don't
let it become my energy.
Because otherwise,
you can get sick,
just like somebody's sick.
>>REGINA: Yeah, you don't want
that to become your reality.
>>DALE: It's not my reality.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>DALE: It's just an
energy I'm reading.
Then, there's emotional
empathy, which
is really about feelings--
sensing what other
people are feeling.
Really feeling--
not what they're
showing that they're feeling.
So you know this one, Regina.
When somebody is looking
really happy and pert,
and you're going, oh,
god, they're so angry.
I know they're angry.
I just know they are.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DALE: Or whatever
the feeling is.
You know what it really is.
Mental empathy is
harder to describe.
But if you have the
gift, you get it.
It's about being able
to pick up cognitively
on somebody else's motivation.
So if somebody else
is really wanting
to have this job rather than
that job, you're going to go,
oh, they so hate their job.
I just know they don't
like what they're doing.
I so know they really want to
be home right now, sleeping,
or whatever it is.
So it's about getting a sense
of what somebody is thinking
about, what they're aware of.
And spiritual empathy can
also be hard to describe.
But again, if you have this
gifting, you're aware of it.
You know what that
person's really believing--
the difference between
their professed
values and how they're living.
You sort of know what
god knows about them.
You might even be able to go,
they shouldn't be in this job,
and they should be
doing this, instead.
Physical empaths are
physical, obviously.
Spiritual empaths
also pick up on what's
happening in the
invisible world.
So when there's entities--
dark forces, ghosts, spirits--
they're the ones that are going,
OK, this is a really full room.
There's 42 different
spirits flying around.
And if you are raised in a
family that doesn't believe
in some things like that,
you're going to struggle,
maybe even thinking
your sort of crazy.
>>REGINA: Like you.
>>DALE: Yeah.
Oh, I saw spirits.
I saw ghosts.
I heard them.
They talk to me.
And I just learned
not to talk about it,
because we were really
Lutheran-- very boring
Lutheran.
>>REGINA: I was boring
Missouri-centered Lutheran,
too, for 17 years.
Oh, my god.
>>DALE: Oh, my gosh.
>>REGINA: Talk about squashing
the joy out of life--
>>DALE: I know.
>>REGINA: --and the magic.
>>DALE: Well, and I could
see fairies, and a lot
of little happy creatures.
And I knew when
they were around.
And as empaths, we want to
have joy out of our gifts.
We want to be able to go,
oh, I can tend to this person
and speak to their
feelings, but I don't
have to become their feeling.
I can just have
compassion for them.
So the tools are,
first of all, being
able to distinguish between who
you are and somebody else is.
So I always have
people do that by maybe
seven, eight times a day,
affirming who they really are.
I just call that our spirit.
I am my spirit, you
are your spirit.
There's a greater spirit,
whatever you want to call it.
And let everybody be
in the right place.
So I use that tool.
>>REGINA: So kind of
claiming your territory.
>>DALE: You claim
your territory.
And secondarily, I always
tell people, claim your body.
Because all gifts-- whether
they're clairvoyant or seeing,
clairaudient or hearing,
or clairempathic,
which is what we're
talking about--
we can get confused with that
spiritual idea of oneness
and think that that means we're
supposed to be totally unified
on every level.
But I'm sorry, this is my body.
So I want to feel my feelings.
I want to know what I think.
I want to be on my purpose.
I want to be aware of
if I'm off or not, what
my feelings are telling me.
So that's sort of
just a decision.
There's not a trick.
It's just deciding, while
I'm here, this is my body.
And I'm not letting
anybody else in it,
or anything of
somebody else in it.
And then the third
conceptual issue I
think, or principle to grasp--
I sort of also referenced
this a few minutes ago--
is that you get to register
this invisible energy
rather than own it.
So I get to sense when somebody
is going through something.
It's sort of like reading it.
You're letting
the impression in,
but you're not
bringing the actual--
>>REGINA: Energy.
>>DALE: --subtle
energy into your body.
And that's also a decision.
I can read it, or not.
>>REGINA: Right, you just have
to be diligent, like you say.
>>DALE: You have to be diligent.
>>REGINA: You have to
be conscious that this
is what you're requiring.
Let me ask you this.
Is it possible to ask
your guides, for example--
the lovely beings that surround
us, that are our team, right?
Can you ask them to help
you and do this for you
in case you keep forgetting?
>>DALE: Yes, yes, and I call
that getting a gatekeeper.
It's even more useful
to have just one
guide act as that gatekeeper
and just say, you know what?
I'll block it for you.
I'm your guard, I'm your sentry.
I'll keep it out, and
I'll let you know when
you do need to pay attention.
Because sometimes,
it's useful to know,
this person's about to blow.
We're at a family gathering,
and they're going to yell.
And I better know
it, because I think
I want to walk out of the room.
So these are survival skills--
is to be able to pick up.
They're connecting skills, too.
And so it's really useful
to have a guide helping you,
or to get a way to interpret
in your body what's happening.
But one really simple
tool that I, for instance,
taught my empathic son is,
sometimes, it's a little late.
You're kind of going, OK, I'm
feeling really weird right now.
I'm feeling off.
Is this my cold, or
somebody else's cold?
Is this my rage, or
somebody else's rage?
So I have him-- and
I do this, too-- use
the body sort of as
an answer machine
and just ask the question.
OK, body, if this is my energy,
give me an upward feeling.
And then, you just feel up.
If this is not mine,
do a downward feeling.
>>REGINA: Kind of like dowsing.
>>DALE: That's it, it's just
like dowsing with your body.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DALE: And then,
if it's not yours,
you just ask whatever you
believe in-- your own spirit,
a greater spirit,
your guides, whatever.
You can do it just
through willpower.
It's just, I'm going to
wash out what's not mine.
I always add that,
let it be taken
to where it can be useful.
Because you don't always
want to send something
back at somebody.
Then, you start a little
bit of a rope fight.
>>REGINA: Right, you do.
[LAUGHTER]
>>DALE: Right?
And they might just
get you for that one.
I just say, take it
somewhere where it's useful.
It can be--
>>REGINA: Decommission
the energy.
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: But let it
be used constructively.
>>DALE: Yes.
And you know the old
typical, new-age visioning
of the white light
coming through?
That's just fine.
There's a reason
that those ideas
have been around for decades--
because they work.
>>REGINA: Well, for
thousands of years.
>>DALE: Thousands
of years, yeah.
They're old age.
They work.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DALE: Yeah.
And then, there's a
couple other useful tools.
If you find that you're
still sort of struggling,
I just say, put
mirrors around you.
Put little mica chips in
mirrors, in your energy field.
I often picture them
almost like a pyramid.
They just bounce off what's not
yours, bring in what you need,
and--
>>REGINA: But could
they bounce it
back to the person
that's projecting it?
>>DALE: Pyramid, pyramid.
>>REGINA: So a
pyramid won't do that?
>>DALE: Pyramid-- because it
shaped like this, so bum--
>>REGINA: Yeah, can't go fff.
>>DALE: --it goes up,
it goes to the heavens.
>>REGINA: That's a good idea.
That's very practical.
>>DALE: Pyramid, yeah.
The good thing about knowing
that it's your own issue--
and, for me, taking
self responsibility--
is then I can do
something about it.
And then, I don't have to
go down that bunny hole
next time, too.
I can actually change.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DALE: Right?
>>REGINA: So I think these
are some wonderful, practical
techniques people can use.
I like the idea of
the mirrored pyramid.
And also, I like the idea
of asking guides for help,
because I tend to be
forgetful about that stuff.
And I know I won't
do my due diligence
to say, these are my boundaries,
this is me, this is--
I'm not going to end up doing
that, because I'll forget.
>>DALE: We will,
we know ourselves.
>>REGINA: And so if I can
just put it into place
and say, hey, guys, you
know I'm going to forget.
Could you help me out, here?
Right?
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>DALE: I even tell
the guides, if there's
something you need me
to know about anything,
I'm pretty dense.
I'm in a human body.
I'm busy.
I'm doing my thing.
I'm probably not tuned
in, so just get me
the message, however you can.
And they'll get it.
I'll see four license plates,
I'll get hit on the head
with a book-- you know,
the old book technique.
I'll start calling
somebody-- my phone will
start calling somebody.
I didn't dial it.
I could be staring
at the phone, and it
calls somebody who I've sort
of been avoiding, by the way.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
>>DALE: So they can
move physical energy.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>>DALE: Physical and subtle
energy aren't that different.
It's just about density.
And so you can do
something physically
and make a difference
in your life,
obviously, even in
the empathic world.
One really good
trick, if you don't
want to pick up on what's
happening to somebody,
is just cross your
arms over your stomach
or put your ankles
over each other,
because it closes off the
flow of your energy centers
and it blocks you off from
what's happening around you.
>>REGINA: And if you
just pay attention,
when we think about
it, think about how
our body position
is when we're having
an uncomfortable conversation.
>>DALE: Guess what we do?
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's
exactly what we do naturally.
>>DALE: Right, right.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
interesting, yeah.
>>DALE: Well, it's sort of
like what you brought up before
about couples, where she's
feeling all the feelings
and saying, no, I know
that you're upset.
I know this.
I know you didn't mow the lawn.
And he's sitting
there like this--
or she is, however it
is our interactions are.
But the body pretty much acts
out what's really happening.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
Well, it sounds like it's
going to be a lovely book--
a lovely, little book.
>>DALE: It's a very
little, pocket-sized book.
You can bring it in your pocket.
>>REGINA: And this
is the one that
follows the one we're
talking about today.
Also, it's a new book.
And it has to do
with clairaudience,
which followed a book
on clairvoyance, as I
said at the beginning.
But why did you choose
this particular trajectory,
and choose the clairs
in a particular order?
>>DALE: I think-- in
my practice, anyway--
the most frequent question I
hear around intuitive giftings
are people asking to
become more clairvoyant.
They want to see.
I wish I could see.
I want to get psychic sight.
I want to get images.
I want to get dreams.
It sounds so glamorous--
and so cool, and so neat--
that I really thought, OK,
let's just answer to the crowd
and first write the book about
clairvoyance, or clear seeing.
And I primarily-- in my sessions
with people, I'm clairvoyant.
I get tons of pictures.
I get colors, I get
pictures, I get the past.
I see what they did
in second grade.
I see their spirits,
or this or that.
And it's fun.
I love seeing pictures.
You get a picture, and it's the
equivalent of thousand words.
And so what I
typically find, too,
when I'm teaching
clairvoyance, is
that people are much
more clairvoyant
than they think they are.
They just don't know
there's different styles.
Like sometimes, you just get
black and white pictures.
Well, that's still clairvoyance.
Or you can turn a
feeling into a picture,
if you learn how to do it.
Or some people just
get symbols, or colors,
and they don't think
they're clairvoyant.
But anytime you're seeing
somehow, you're clairvoyant.
Or they get a lot of
signs in the environment.
Like they're billboard readers,
and they get all their messages
from billboards.
Well, heck, that's clairvoyance,
because it's imaging.
It all works.
So I wanted to clear up some of
the myths and let people know--
you, too, are clairvoyant.
[CHUCKLES] And this
is how you know,
and this is how
you strengthen it.
So it's a fun topic.
>>REGINA: And it's very
practical, as well.
>>DALE: It's really
practical, yeah.
>>REGINA: OK, so now we're
going into clairaudience.
And this is interesting, because
there's so much confusion.
It can come from so
many different sources.
And we're going to
start drilling down
into these various areas.
But one a lot of people have,
and they have an issue with
is whether--
it's not tinnitus, it's
just this intense ringing
in their head that can cycle up.
It can cycle down,
it can go away.
It can scream at you.
Because I think probably a
number of people watching this
have this issue, let's
go ahead and talk about,
what is this overwhelming
sense of noise that happens?
>>DALE: That's
typically clairaudience.
And it's important to remember,
with any of the clairs,
we get the information
at one level or another
through our body.
So when we're being
clairaudient--
let's say we're even hearing
a dead person that's floating
around the room--
in one way or another, we
will hear what they're saying,
or get a noise, or some
kind of verbal indication,
an auditory indication,
that they're present.
And so clairaudient,
at its baseline,
works through the throat
chakra and through the ears.
The bones can convey
vibration, et cetera.
But it's going to be ear-based.
And so there's different
radars, there's
different radio stations,
that we get messages on.
And so frequently, when
that gift is opening up,
or when something or somebody is
trying to communicate with us,
it might just be one radio
station that goes on.
And it could be the
high-pitched one within us.
And typically, those are more
of the angelic or the higher
orders.
The higher the
pitch, typically--
not always, but typically--
the higher the source.
And they're trying
to get through to us.
But we don't know
how to tune into it.
We don't know how to really
grab that sound, or the message,
and interpret it
in English words,
or whatever our language
is, or how to write it down,
or how to turn it off even.
>>REGINA: Right.
I mean, I had a
problem with that.
>>DALE: We don't
know how to turn off.
>>REGINA: I don't know
how to turn it off.
>>DALE: Yeah, it's hard.
>>REGINA: And yet I'll notice,
with that particular feature,
driving through a
particular area--
especially moving
through space--
then the sound goes [MURMURS].
It'll go from high-pitched,
down really low--
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: --and go
into this hum of sorts.
And you pass through
whatever it is
you're passing
through-- a space--
and, whoo, it's way back up.
>>DALE: All that
means is, when you
get that lower-pitched sound,
there's a denser vibration.
It's just more
earthly, or denser,
or lower, or more
so-called down to earth.
But it sounds like you
tune into vibration,
which is what you're hearing.
It's vibration.
Sometimes, we can
interpret it as words.
Sometimes, it's really
just the vibratory nature,
and we just get
an auditory sound.
But it can drive people crazy.
I would think it could
drive ear, nose, throat
doctors crazy, because
they're not going
to be able to figure it out.
>>REGINA: Because they
can't find the source of it.
>>DALE: They can't
figure it out.
>>REGINA: I know, I had a
guest here the other day
who was so heightened in her
awareness before the interview
that the noise was so loud she
couldn't calm herself down.
It was very, very
difficult for her.
We worked together and
kind of got it calmed down,
but it was the noise that
was driving her crazy.
She said, I hope I can hear you.
I can barely hear through
all the noise right now--
the sound, the humming.
>>DALE: Well, my kids have
always been angry with me
because when we
drive in the car,
I keep the radio really low,
because I hear other sounds.
So I can't focus and hear
all these so-called inaudible
sounds that they're not hearing
and have the radio really loud.
I mean, they're always
like, you're just
stressed out in the car.
And I'm like, well,
there's a lot going on--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
[LAUGHTER] --that you
can't hear, maybe.
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Well, let's talk
about the various sources.
As you said, oftentimes
high-pitched sounds
can be kind of angelic realms.
So there are a lot
of different sources
we're getting information from.
So let's start with
guides and angels, OK?
And so how does
that often show up
in the form of clairaudience,
aside from high pitches?
>>DALE: Well, sometimes
they can just speak.
Sometimes, you might
even hear a noise--
a banging, or something falling.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah, knocking.
>>DALE: Yeah, I
get the knocking.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: I do, too.
>>DALE: Or just something
that tells you they're
in the environment,
or footsteps.
It was sort of funny.
A couple years ago, when my
youngest went off to college--
the dogs and I sleep
downstairs, all right?
They're very happy sleeping
downstairs with me.
We were woken up about
2:00 in the morning
with footsteps upstairs--
real footsteps.
I woke up, they woke up.
They looked at me,
I looked at them.
And I was like, well,
go see what it is.
They wouldn't leave the room.
They made me go up there.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: Do your job.
>>DALE: I think it was
my deceased father who
was sort of checking in on me.
>>REGINA: They were
chilled with it.
>>DALE: Yeah.
Isn't that a--
>>REGINA: Or scared.
>>DALE: [LAUGHING] I know.
So we can hear
environmental noises.
Sometimes, we even hear--
like, the radio will
flip, the real radio.
Or the television might flip.
Or something gets
louder on it, and we
get a message in that way.
So they can speak to us
through other means, as well.
Or they speak in dreams.
They come and visit,
talk to us in dreams.
They may even-- not in
a bad way, all right--
take over somebody else.
And the person will just
say something to you.
And you'll go, wow,
that's meant for me.
And they'll go, I have
no idea why I said that.
Because that's how you're
best to receive it.
The angel just sort of
whispered in their ear,
or shoved it through them, and
you get the message, as well.
And sometimes, they really
will just talk, or communicate,
or sing a song.
I get a lot that's
singing in my mind.
It's just like a song will
burst forth, especially when I'm
doing sessions with clients.
I'll hear these songs.
>>REGINA: So pay attention.
>>DALE: To pay attention.
And it will have the message
that the person needs.
I mean, I remember one woman
who really was rather shy,
and I was checking
in with her guides.
Like, what does
she need to know?
And they started
singing, in chorus,
"I Am Woman, Hear Me Roar."
And I just will not
re-sing these songs,
because I can't say sing.
[LAUGHTER]
But she goes, oh, I get
it, type of a thing.
But they can write.
There's many different
clairaudient methods.
There's different
kinds of writing.
There's what's called automatic
writing, where something
kind of does it for you.
There's guided writing,
where you're just
sort of kind of in
partnership with a guide,
and they write with you.
So there's a lot of ways they
can get to us if we let them.
We have to let them.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
the technological interface
of Siri.
>>DALE: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: Smartphones.
>>DALE: Right.
>>REGINA: Right?
Where you're just
doing your thing,
your phone's on the table.
It starts recording everything
and talking back to you,
and you're not
touching your phone.
>>DALE: Yes, I've
had that happen.
Because I believe we actually
have an energetic technology
center, at this point,
in our brain that
links into technology.
So it can get messages to
us, too, including Siri.
>>REGINA: No, it happens
to so many people,
which is why I brought it up.
>>DALE: It does, it's
really common, exactly.
Or she'll just start talking.
>>REGINA: I mean, sometimes
it's simple voice recognition.
Maybe you're saying a word
that has an eerie sound in it.
>>DALE: Right.
>>REGINA: But this
goes even beyond that.
>>DALE: It's beyond
that, because the guides
can reach through anything.
>>REGINA: We've touched
on that one for people
that have their
phone around a lot
and have had this experience.
>>DALE: Or computers.
>>REGINA: And
computers-- same thing.
We've talked about
guides and angels.
We're going to go through
the different kind of beings
that tend to try to
get through to us--
deceased humans.
>>DALE: It's very common,
it's very frequently--
>>REGINA: Like Uncle
Fred, or whatnot.
>>DALE: Yes, exactly--
Great Aunt Alice,
or whoever it is.
And there's different reasons.
Some deceased humans are
actually sort of stuck.
They haven't
finished their work,
or maybe they just want to
keep guiding, or helping,
or preventing X, Y and Z from
happening, or whatever it is.
But oftentimes, even when they
more leave the earth plane,
they can still visit.
They may show up to
help, or to assist.
And they'll speak to us.
My dad's been dead
almost 30 years,
and I cannot summon my father.
He's Norwegian, I'm Norwegian.
It doesn't work.
He's going to come
when he feels like it.
So for about 10 times
over these years,
he's just shown up
and talked to me.
The most recent was maybe
a year and a half ago.
I was in a car, driving
to a baseball game.
He sat in the car next to
me, in the passenger seat.
The seat deflated, and he
just started talking to me.
I could hear him--
not like you would hear a
normal human, but in my head.
But it was his voice.
So he just shows up and
guides every once in a while.
So they can help.
They can guide.
They can visit.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
and they can also--
I had a unique experience
after my mother died.
My sister and her eldest
daughter, in particular--
they just were still picking
up the phone to call mom,
and talking about her
a lot, and so forth.
And then, one night in a
dream, she came through.
And she came through
raggedy and exhausted,
like she was coming
from another dimension.
And she came in and said,
do you know how exhausting
it is for me to come
from where I am now,
to try to come through to answer
or communicate with all of you?
And I said, mom, don't do it.
Go back where you are
living now and stay there.
We don't need you
to do anything.
Mostly it's just
nostalgic and familial.
We can do that in our own
way, in our own hearts.
This is not to summon you.
My sister had a
dream the same night.
So she came to my sister, too.
And so that was it.
>>DALE: That's gorgeous.
Isn't that respectful?
My mom just died a few months
ago, and I had the funeral.
>>REGINA: I'm sorry.
>>DALE: Thank you.
Well, she's visited.
And about three weeks
ago, I had the funeral.
And the day before, the funeral
director called me and said,
now we're going to
seal up the urn.
If you want any ashes, you
have to let me know now.
And I did not want
bags of ashes.
I didn't want to do this.
I'm really busy, I
don't want to do it.
My mother's voice was so loud.
She was like, you'd better tell
him we want two bags of ashes,
because one has
to go to the ocean
and one has to go
to the Badlands.
And I'm like, OK.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: That's so funny.
>>DALE: She hasn't
been gone that long,
so she's still sort of
interactive, directing
everything, which would
be what she would have
done when she was alive, too.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: OK then, let's talk
about interdimensional beings,
because this is a wide
array of entities.
>>DALE: Yes, yes.
We can't even name them
all, because there's
at least 13 known dimensions--
some scientists say 26.
Who knows?
>>REGINA: So many different
species within all dimensions.
>>DALE: Oh, and different
planets, constellations.
And then, if you start to
really bear down on those,
you're going to say, well,
there's deceased souls from all
those dimensions, right?
And there's living, or animate,
souls from those dimensions.
And you can access
them from the past.
Let's say you were alive on a
blue planet 1,000 years ago--
you can connect into that
planet, what it is now,
and what it was then.
And there's
concurrent realities.
And there is future realities.
>>REGINA: Yeah, the
whole notion of parallel
realities-- you could
throw that into the mix.
>>DALE: Oh, there's
all kinds of beings.
It's why I like studying with
shamans in different places
in the world, because
that doesn't throw them.
They'll just go, oh,
here's a star being,
or here's a Pleiadian, or
here's somebody from the future,
or here's an alien.
They're not scared.
>>REGINA: But a
lot of people who
don't have the vocabulary for
it and the knowledge around it
are scared.
>>DALE: Yes.
>>REGINA: And so let's talk
about interdimensional beings
and some of the ways
in which they show up--
non-physicals.
>>DALE: They're non-physicals.
Well, again, they can just talk.
They can speak.
You might see them as just
wavy energies, or colors,
or shimmering.
They may project that
image into you, as well.
They might touch you.
And you just feel, this is
not a touch I understand.
This is from something
or somewhere else than
what I know, as well.
A lot of times, they do their
best to communicate with us.
And if you ask questions--
that's the key.
Ask questions.
Who are you?
Where are you from?
Are you from the light?
Whatever word you use for
spirit, god, goodness.
Are you here for
a loving intent?
If you're not, my guidance
needs to take you away.
So interacting gives you the
answers and the reassurance
that you need.
>>REGINA: And it's
respectful to ask questions.
>>DALE: Yes, it is respectful.
Because if they're showing
up, they want to communicate.
They want you to know
that they're there.
I worked maybe a year ago with
this little boy, 12-year-old.
Came in, wouldn't tell
me what was going on.
His mother was sitting there.
She said, well, just tell
me what you get for him.
And I looked at him.
He looks like-- he's adorable.
And I said, you speak
to aliens, don't you?
And he goes, how
do you know that?
I go, because there's
one around you.
I could see her
in my mind's eye.
And he goes, yeah, there's
this little girl who's blue
who shows up and talks to me.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: But how
reassuring for him.
And his mother, now--
it's reassuring for her,
because now her little
son's not crazy.
>>DALE: He's not crazy.
>>REGINA: You're
seeing what he's up to.
>>DALE: He's not
psychotic, right.
There's an alien
who talks to him.
And I just said,
oh, you're an X-Men.
I just said, you're an X-Men.
He goes, I'm an
X-Men, that's so cool.
>>REGINA: Oh, that's so sweet.
>>DALE: Isn't it adorable?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DALE: Yeah, so I
think a lot of people
get these experiences,
but they don't
talk about them because they
don't want to be labeled.
The family members might
think they're weird,
or they're talking to demons.
Which, again, is why
it's OK to ask questions.
Are you from goodness, or not?
Are you interference,
which is not good.
>>REGINA: But if they're
not from goodness,
are they going to
tell you the truth?
>>DALE: You can feel it.
You can smell it,
you can feel it.
Or they'll disappear.
>>REGINA: Oh, and let's talk
about smell, too, in a moment.
>>DALE: Smell's big.
>>REGINA: It is big.
>>DALE: It's big.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>DALE: Big clue.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
OK, we also have--
we'll get through
this other part,
and then let's go back
to touch and smell.
>>DALE: Good.
>>REGINA: OK, so we have aliens.
>>DALE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Third-dimensional
and other-wordly aliens.
>>DALE: Right.
>>REGINA: And so what's the
distinction there often,
in your own mind, in terms of
maybe the type of communication
or whatnot?
>>DALE: To me, aliens that
present themselves to me
or the people who I know
do tend to be more 3D.
They're from another
planet or constellation,
and they're more in
the here and now.
So they're current.
They're here.
They may be beaming in on
super conductive light,
or traveling around in
super cool spaceships,
or holographically
projecting themselves,
but they're like you or me.
It would be like
talking to somebody
through the airways from China,
but they're just from someplace
else.
To me, interdimensional
are really
not describable by human
terms, because they're mainly
energy beings.
They're made more
of sound and light.
I actually had a guide
one time say to me,
you know, humans are
just made out of sound,
light, soul, and mud?
Like-- mud, right?
The old good Adam and Eve clay.
>>REGINA: Back to basics, yep--
minerals, right.
>>DALE: And aliens, in
their realm, are sort of 3D.
So they're made out of
some type of material.
Even if they know
how to evaporate it,
or "Star Trek" it, or "Star
Wars" it, or whatever it is,
they're just more like us than
interdimensionals might be.
>>REGINA: OK, so then they
have another question.
If you're looking at
communications-- and you
may not be able to answer this.
If you're looking at
communications with
interdimensionals--
which are non-physical,
so they're going to have a
totally different relationship
to time and space--
versus third-dimensional
alien types who would have,
theoretically, a similar
relationship to space
and time--
>>DALE: Totally.
>>REGINA: --when you're
talking with them,
can you get more
accurate information--
say in terms of pegging
something into a time frame--
from an alien versus
an interdimension?
>>DALE: Yes, I get more
practical data, usable data,
from the aliens, because there's
an understanding of matter.
>>REGINA: Yeah, time and space.
>>DALE: Not just energy--
it's time and space, exactly.
When I've worked with
interdimensionals,
typically I find they're trying
to instruct me or teach me.
And they really have
to dumb it down.
>>REGINA: And they don't
really live in a sense of time
as we know it.
>>DALE: No, they give me
more senses of things.
They were trying
to even teach me
what plants could
do on this planet,
and they had to kind of
send me ripples of energy.
I had to go to sleep in
order to understand it.
Some other part of me-- some
deeper, smarter, part of me--
had to work with
the data to come up
with explainable
information about it,
because they're
really beyond us.
They're beyond.
They're in front of and
after us, you could even say.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
that's why I thought
that might be a distinguishing
factor between that.
>>DALE: Perfect,
excellent, excellent.
>>REGINA: OK, now let's talk
about when we're actually
just communicating-- not just.
We're communicating with our
own higher mind, our own higher
intelligence, which is every
bit as expansive and beautiful--
>>DALE: It is.
>>REGINA: --as most any other
entity we're reaching out to.
>>DALE: Yeah, we communicate
with parts of ourselves
all the time.
Family system therapists
are having you talk
to your inner child constantly.
That's what therapy is
about-- different aspects.
So then, we can also talk to
different parts of our soul
that have been around and
alive in different time periods
and learn from them.
And then, ultimately, it's about
talking to our higher self--
>>REGINA: Right, always.
>>DALE: Higher mind, higher
self, higher spirit--
that's sort of all-knowing,
already interconnected,
all wise, very humored,
I think, sometimes
in a kind way by what
we're not getting yet.
But it's a kind humor.
It's like, you'll
get it, it's OK.
In fact, I help my younger
son sometimes with baseball.
Frequently, I have him--
I don't use the
word higher self,
I use the word
future self, for him.
I'll say, how does your
future self throw the ball?
He'll go, OK, let me check.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: That's great, yeah.
>>DALE: It's really practical.
And then, he can feel it.
>>REGINA: And as an X-Man, he
can relate to his future self.
>>DALE: Exactly, exactly.
And he can feel it in the body,
because our higher self can
be in our so-called lower
self, our physical self,
and run vibrationally
so we can get what
it's trying to communicate.
Whereas somebody
else's higher self
may not relate to us
quite the same way.
So it's a perfect way
to source information,
or wisdom, or even
something practical like,
should I go to
the movies or not?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DALE: Right?
>>DALE: I mean, this
isn't all highfalutin.
And sometimes, where
I'm stymied the most
aren't on big decisions.
It's sort of like, I don't
know what to eat for dinner.
I have no sense of it.
So it might take me
15 minutes to get
my higher self, or my body
self, or my inner child,
to sort through all of this
just to make a decision.
So sometimes,
we're just stymied.
>>REGINA: I'm the same with you.
I can make big decisions fast.
Little ones like, as you
say, what to eat, totally--
when other people
start ordering,
it's, oh, that sounds good.
I think I want that.
[LAUGHTER]
>>DALE: Oh, I know.
Well, we're also probably
relating empathically to them.
>>REGINA: Oh, my god,
that has to be it, too.
And it just totally
throws me off.
I should just order first when
I have a sense of something--
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And now, let's
talk about smell and touch--
that notion when you can feel
some being touching your hair,
and so forth.
Let's talk about that.
>>DALE: That's right.
Well, in one way, it belongs
to the basket of clairempathy.
Touch, smell-- all those
senses is really valid.
I mean, I can feel
certain beings or guides--
when they're giving
me information,
or waking me up in the
morning, or whatever it is--
touching me.
And why wouldn't we
be able to do that?
Because we're in body,
and that's just as much
of an empathic sense
as anything else.
And I make a lot of decisions
by smell, even with clients.
A client will say, well,
what about my Uncle Henry,
or whatever?
And if I smell a
bad smell, I'll go,
OK, either there's
something bad that
happened between
you and Uncle Henry,
or Uncle Henry's stuck
and needs some help.
Or we're not
smelling uncle Henry,
we're smelling something sort
of bad that's hanging around you
that we'd better figure out.
You can't hide the intention
of something or somebody
from smell.
It's the oldest sense, and it's
always going to be accurate.
I remember actually
even-- years ago,
when I met a man who I dated
for a year, year and a half.
As soon as I met
him, I smelled roses.
And he wasn't wearing eau de
rose, or whatever it would be.
I said, I just smell
roses around you.
And he started crying,
because he had lost a sister--
Megan was her name--
who always wore rose oil.
And he goes, oh,
my sister's around,
which just bonded us
right away, because there
was this instant sense
of trusting each other
and how we know
information about that.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and sometimes
when a person will come in just
with their own
energy, they may not
be wearing any kind essential
oil or perfume or anything,
but there's this lovely scent.
>>DALE: There's a smell.
>>REGINA: Yeah, there's a smell.
And also, my son and I used
to talk about the garbage man,
because in this
one little area--
it was like a tube in the
middle of the living room,
this one little
three-foot radius--
you'd walk through it, and you
could smell the garbage man.
It was like burning garbage.
>>DALE: [LAUGHING] I get it.
>>REGINA: Like, what
are you doing here?
And he and I could always smell
it, but other people couldn't.
I told a friend of mine who
was actually very open--
very empathetic and
intuitive, also--
I was saying, yeah,
this garbage man's
hanging out in this tube
in the middle of the house.
And we just got used to stuff
like this, seeing things.
And she said, I
have one too, right
outside my bedroom window.
>>DALE: [LAUGHING]
That's so funny.
>>REGINA: And he's just kind
of stinking the place up.
[LAUGHS]
>>DALE: Well, they got issues
they have to work through,
whoever the invisible being is.
>>REGINA: Well,
let's talk about it.
Is there any way
to encourage people
like the garbageman to move on?
>>DALE: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: Because I didn't.
I just let squirrels stay,
garbage men, whoever's there,
stay.
>>DALE: I have another
super easy technique I use.
I just call it streams of light,
or healing streams of grace.
It just recognizes that
it's always available,
our streams of grace-- which,
to me, isn't a religious term.
It's love in motion.
And they'll be invented
as they're needed.
They're just always there.
All great healers, I believe,
have used something like this.
And I just ask.
I call for streams of grace.
I just say, please send streams
of grace-- not through me,
but directly--
>>REGINA: Right, directly, OK.
>>DALE: --to the garbage
man, or the hurt person,
or the person
having the meltdown.
You can even be in
Target and just get
that funny, weird feeling
about what somebody is doing,
or how they're
treating their kids,
or they give off that bad smell.
You can't get
involved, and you don't
want to take on the energy.
So I just ask for
streams of grace
to go to them or the situation.
>>REGINA: OK,
thank you for that.
>>DALE: It works.
>>REGINA: Yeah, instead
of just being tolerant.
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: People come
for a couple days,
and they stay for a month.
It's like, no boundaries,
including with the garbage.
[LAUGHS]
>>DALE: Well, you can surround
yourself with streams of grace,
too.
Talk about empathic boundaries.
Or even if you get too many
pictures, or too many voices,
bring these streams around you.
And just say, I can seal
myself off with this energy.
It's good energy, so
I'm not harming anybody,
but I don't need to
be harmed, either.
>>REGINA: Right, right, and
I don't need to smell that.
>>DALE: Right.
>>REGINA: OK, let's
talk about when
you're being approached
or influenced
by darker realm beings.
>>DALE: Yes, it's common.
And one of the reasons people
sometimes don't like to talk
about this is
because, certainly,
some types of darker beings--
whether they're fallen angels,
or dead people, or spirits
that have never incarnated,
or whatever it might be--
they tend to go after one of
two basic types of people,
because they want
to steal energy.
Their goal is to steal energy.
They either want to steal
somebody's life energy,
because they want
to be dense enough
to remain on the earth plane.
Or they want to steal
somebody's light,
because they don't
want to go to the light
to get fed spiritually.
So what they tend to do
is either try to really
haunt or scare people--
to scare them, or to
kind of stir their shame,
so they act out on addictions.
Because when people
are scared, or when
they're acting in a way that
they feel embarrassed about,
or when they're
yelling or screaming
or something, or angry or
something in an unhealthy way,
then it's very easy for
some of these beings
to steal their life energy.
>>REGINA: Well, there's a
lot of wattage behind that.
>>DALE: It's a lot of power,
and they can just plumb take it,
all right?
The other frequent accommodation
that they make, however--
or companions that they
seek-- are really nice people
who are very sweet and kind.
And you talk about wattage--
they're like light
bulbs for a spirit.
Like angels on earth,
and they're so sweet.
And sometimes, they tend to
get victimized by dark beings
or creatures too, because they
have so much beautiful energy
of goodness and light that
they're perfect feeder systems
for another to steal the light.
And they tend not to
understand that they
need to be more powerful.
They can say, no.
They can say, go get your own.
Or, if you're dead,
go to the other side.
And so sometimes
really nice people
don't like to admit or say that
maybe something's drinking off
of them or maybe they feel
something shadowy around,
because they think
it means they're bad,
instead of it might mean that
they're just really good.
But they need to get
some more street smarts
when it comes to spirituality.
>>REGINA: Right, and
also, when you're
looking at the
quality of messages,
you got a nice, clear channel
going there between you
and whatever.
But you're getting
messages that are
strong and clear and
powerful, but maybe
not in the highest and best
good for you or someone else.
>>DALE: Exactly,
and then we have
to keep asking questions
and re-evaluating.
I had a client--
lovely person, lovely
woman, a nurse.
She kept getting messages
that these different men
she was meeting were
going to marry her.
And I was like, well, have
any of them married you?
No.
Have you dated any of them?
But she said, but my
guides keep telling me
that they're meant for me.
And I go--
>>REGINA: And then, you
think you're delusional.
>>DALE: Right.
And it's like, you need
a higher set of guides,
because they're talking
about possibilities.
And if you're going to get
guidance-- first of all,
we're not supposed to
get that much information
about the future because, heck,
we're supposed to live it.
>>REGINA: I agree,
we have to choose.
>>DALE: We have to choose.
We're alive.
We're supposed to
feel it, be it.
You know what I
mean-- experience it.
So you're not going to get very
much, unless it's a warning,
or it's to tell you when
you're in the right place,
or if it's to make
you work hard.
Sometimes, it's just to
freaking make you work hard.
>>REGINA: Yeah, stay on task.
>>DALE: This is what
you're supposed to do,
so you have to keep on task.
So anything that's
sort of sugar coating
how easy this is
going to be tends
to be sort of lower order.
So you can fire a set of guides
and ask for a higher set,
too, that are more
respectful of spiritual law.
>>REGINA: Yeah, because that
actually is really, really
common with people
who have just started
trying to work with their
intuitive capacities.
And they're getting all
this lovely information
that they love hearing,
but it doesn't turn out.
And so as a result, then
they start losing their faith
in themselves.
>>DALE: Exactly, and it
happens to all of us.
And whenever we go
through a big change,
we tend to kind of get a
little bit more mixed up, too.
I mean, we get different
messages coming in,
or different beings.
So after a big
change, I tell people,
just don't believe too much of
what you're hearing right away.
Just let it sort of modulate.
Go to the top, whatever
you call the top.
Go top down.
That's my phrase--
is, go top down.
Just go-- whatever you
call spirit, god, oneness,
creator, go there and ask for
the guidance to come top down.
And it sorts it through.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and
don't invest too much
in any future messages.
>>DALE: No, no.
>>REGINA: I totally
agree with you on that.
My guides never
tell me what to do.
It's like, you
make your choices,
and we'll give you
all the help you need.
But--
>>DALE: But here you are.
>>REGINA: --these
are your choices.
What do you want to do?
>>DALE: Because of
what I do for a living,
people are constantly
asking, where
do you think you're
going to end up living?
I go, I have no idea.
I'm in my house, right now.
[LAUGHS] I'm in a
nice place, right now.
I don't know, I'll
guess I'll wait and see.
>>REGINA: And the big question
people ask intuitives--
I hear this over and over--
what am I supposed to
be doing with my life?
Wait a minute.
You have to decide that.
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Your journey to--
>>DALE: It's your journey.
>>REGINA: --really begin
feeling into that--
>>DALE: Exactly, right.
>>REGINA: --and making
those decisions.
>>DALE: What I like to
do with those questions--
I do have a gift of
seeing colors that
describe somebody's giftings.
So then I just--
it's super simple for me.
>>REGINA: Well, give
an example of this,
how you might answer that.
I just don't know what
I'm supposed to be doing.
Why am I here on earth?
>>DALE: Well, OK, so
I'm going super simple,
but you obviously have
a ton of white energy.
I see it.
It comes off of you.
That's a spiritual energy.
So I would be able to
tell you or somebody who's
like you, well,
ultimately, you're
going to be coaching and guiding
people about spirituality
and what it really means.
So that would be
a way that I would
start answering the question.
>>REGINA: But can't that be
seen as a dictate of some kind?
Oh, I'm supposed to be
a spiritual counselor,
or whatever?
>>DALE: There's usually
more than one color, too.
>>REGINA: OK, good, so
let's talk about it.
>>DALE: So then people have
to put it all together,
[LAUGHS] which is
where the rub is.
How do you put it together
in a way that's unique?
And part of that uniqueness--
people don't always like this.
I just find this.
I can't prove this,
it's my opinion.
But I think part of
how we put it together
is we have to take what we've
gone through that's been hell,
too.
It doesn't mean god
sat there and said,
you're going to go
through this, or you
have to have an
addiction, or you
have to have a horrible
parents, or whatever.
But somewhere, we have
to transmit that energy.
And that's going to fit into
what we do at some point.
>>REGINA: OK, let's
talk about that.
So you see someone, and
they're exuding white energy.
But there is also a subset
of energy of other colors,
other challenges, coming in.
>>DALE: Yeah, maybe
communication, maybe vision.
>>REGINA: So let's read that.
And what would that look like
when you're talking to someone?
>>DALE: All right, so then
typically what will come up
in my sessions-- because I
orient more as a healer--
let's bring things to the
light, and let's transform it.
Let's see what we can do.
Maybe I'll see that they
were an addict, an alcoholic.
And they may be sober,
they may not be.
But I'll get a strong
sense that line
within the addiction
and the recovery
is a direction for them to go.
And they may even
be the one to say,
I know I'm like a therapist.
I have this spiritual
energy, I'm really physical.
I've thought about being a
coach for former addicts.
And I'm like, well, you
already had your answer.
There you go, you're
putting it all together.
Because you can help people
that you can understand.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DALE: And they
know you get it, too.
>>REGINA: Well, now, the other
thing about being an addict--
alcohol, drugs,
whatnot-- is that there
is more of a
porosity that you can
be a little more easy to work
with from the other side--
good, bad, and indifferent.
>>DALE: Totally.
>>REGINA: Much more permeable.
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Porous,
holes in the aura.
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So let's
take alcoholism,
where there have been some
very famous psychics who
are alcoholics.
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And people say,
well, how can that count?
And how can that be valid?
Well, because they're
wide open, right?
>>DALE: They're wide open.
So certain types of
alcohol addiction
relate to different
energy centers.
Really hard core alcohol
addiction is very first chakra.
That's physical,
that's in the hip area.
That person will be really
open to physical energy,
maybe to talking to dead
people, and knowing what they
were like when they were alive.
>>REGINA: Well, I think of
Arthur Ford and Ruth Montgomery
and their relationship, right?
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Arthur tipped the
bottle very open, right?
>>DALE: Yeah, Yeah.
So addictions are
often also a symptom
of a very powerful chakra that
hasn't been put to highest use
yet, as well.
So a lot of times
women, especially,
will drink wine a
lot-- that's heart.
Well, they're very
heart-based people.
So if they're not
getting those needs met,
the alcohol, the wine,
may help them feel it.
And whether they quit drinking,
or they just modify it,
or whatever it might be,
that's probably a healer
that you're talking about.
That's somebody who can
sense what other people are
relationally going
through, or what they might
need as a healing capacity.
So these addictions line up
with our stronger chakras,
and there's different
gifts in different chakras.
So I never shame somebody
for an addiction.
I'm like, how can we work this?
How can we come to
a healthier place
with a behavior or
a substance where
you can own a power or a
strength in the middle of this?
>>REGINA: OK, let's go
into some exotic stuff,
because there's a
lot in this book.
And I really like the
way you do your research.
I like the way you clarify,
you validate, explain.
These are handbooks
for people who
really want to work with
whatever their clairs are.
>>DALE: They're primers.
>>REGINA: They're primers.
>>DALE: They're
really study books.
They are.
>>REGINA: They really
are study books.
You do a beautiful job
articulating and laying things
out.
And then, you get into what
people consider to be weird.
But let's talk about the
phenomena of speaking
in tongues.
>>DALE: Yes, I had a great
time researching that.
I am not a speaking-in-tonguer,
just to be honest.
I have friends who are.
I think some gifts--
you naturally have some,
you can develop some.
They're just not your way.
It's not my way of
being clairaudient,
but I've been around it.
Speaking in
tongues-- it's a gift
that's been known
thousands of years,
and not only in Christianity.
We know about it because of
the drop of the Holy Spirit
during Pentecost.
And everybody, when
Jesus was alive,
then started to
speak in tongues.
And there's a lot of debate
in the "New Testament"
about, well, what's
the value if you
don't know what you're saying?
And it's more valuable if
you know what you're saying.
And there's this, and
that, and the other thing.
But in my research, it's
been in almost every culture
around the world, because
it's about bringing
through languaging,
bringing through information
that might be from a divine
source, like angelic.
It could come from aliens.
And some people actually have
the speaking-in-tongue gift
of bringing through
another Earth language
that they've never learned.
Sometimes, that happens when
they get hit in the head,
and then something opens up
in what would be called--
>>REGINA: Into maybe
a past life, even.
>>DALE: A past life, or
an epigenetic material,
an ancestor's language, and
they can bring it through.
So there's two basic types.
There's sort of the divine
language that comes through.
But in there, I would put
through alien languages
and interdimensional
languages, as well--
or actually foreign languages,
Earth languages, too.
>>REGINA: So does it just
take a type of clairsentience
to understand what
these things mean?
>>DALE: Yes, yes, I think it
does take that clairsentience,
or claircognizance,
or some way of being
able to get the feeling of
what the vibrations mean
to put it into words.
I have a client who is a
complete speak-in-tongue.
That's how she makes her living.
And people change.
She brings through different
beings from different planets.
And her clients will
cry, they'll heal.
They don't know
what she's saying,
but they feel what she's saying.
And they have these
amazing spiritually
awakening experiences,
or they heal of diseases.
And sometimes she
understands who they are
and where they're from.
And sometimes she doesn't, and
she's just a channel for it.
>>REGINA: But I can
see the beauty in that,
in that you can be resistant
as the client to words you
understand--
>>DALE: That's right.
>>REGINA: --because
you have filters.
>>DALE: That's right.
>>REGINA: Whereas, if
it's coming in in a way
where you can't even conceive
of what they're saying,
you're just getting the pure
information as just energy.
>>DALE: And energy is just
information that vibrates,
so it's just vibration.
It's information that
bypasses your head.
God knows we need to do that
more often, like you're saying.
And it's vibrating the
information into you
in a way that can
literally change
emotions and physicality.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And years ago, I used
to do hypnotherapy.
And I had just a
few clients I worked
with totally silent sessions.
They would go into
agreement that there
was a trust between us.
And so I'd work just with video
motor response, and no words
at all, and especially
on performance,
where you have issues
around sports performance,
or whatever.
And they were amazingly
powerful sessions,
because we bypassed all filters.
>>DALE: Beautiful.
>>REGINA: Very
similar, the tongues.
>>DALE: That's beautiful.
It's the same idea, yeah.
You're just getting out of here.
>>REGINA: Well, this
book goes into all kinds
of beautiful things.
Beyond that, you go into the
devic realm and communicating
with fairies, and water
sprites, and leprechauns,
and kind of communication with
everything in every realm.
>>DALE: It's quite fun.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: It's really fun,
and very well laid out.
So in our last minute
or so together,
can you kind of
sum up what you'd
like us to go away with--
the real meat of it, in terms
of developing our clairaudience?
>>DALE: I think just know that
you are clairaudient, which
is just about clear hearing.
And there's different styles.
You might be involved in hearing
voices, hearing your own voice,
picking up from books,
or different verbal means
in the environment--
speaking in tongues, writing.
Just find your
way, and enjoy it,
because it's an amazing
way to get guidance.
>>REGINA: It really is.
And so it doesn't matter if you
turn the radio on, and a song,
or the exact messaging,
or whether Siri
interrupts your
conversation-- even
though that's kind of creepy.
>>DALE: [LAUGHS] I enjoy it.
>>REGINA: Or whether you have
what seems to be tinnitus,
and you're listening to the
quality of tones up and down--
all of it.
It's all part of our interface.
>>DALE: It's part of connecting.
>>REGINA: It is, indeed.
Cyndi, thank you, again.
It's so fun to sit
with you again.
I love it.
And your book is an absolutely
wonderful little guide
to opening these channels and
understanding them better.
Thank you.
>>DALE: Thank you.
>>REGINA: Cyndi
does her research
and has an array of
books that are truly
educational in understanding
our energy matrix
and how to use it wisely.
You can connect with her work
by going to Cyndi, C-Y-N-D-I,
Dale.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]